This distribution tree of the International Components for Unicode
(ICU) (http://site.icu-project.org/) has been MODIFIED FROM THE
ORIGINAL and is included only as a subproject of the ncml_module of
the Hyrax 1.6 server by OPeNDAP.org (http://www.opendap.org/). For
this reason, it should NOT be used to do a general install of ICU on a
machine. If this is desired, the reader is referred to the actual ICU
distribution site at http://site.icu-project.org/. 

Note that the ncml_module build does not use any copy of ICU already
installed on the machine (at this time), but builds its own special
copies with a different name than the normal ICU libraries and
installs them in a special subdir (currently hyrax_icu) of the
configure --prefix to avoid collisions with existing ICU development
installs already in the install directory.

If a file has been modified, the original has been left with a ".orig"
suffix, for example "configure.in.orig" is the configure.in from the
original ICU distribution.  (See below for specific changes).

We have also added a "configure.gnu" wrapper script to icu/source
which the recursive configure calls (as part of autoconf's
AC_CONFIG_SUBDIRS behavior).  This script calls the autogenerated
configure script with options specialized for the ncml_module build.

If you encounter any difficulties in the automatic build of the static
ICU libraries while building the ncml_module, please direct email to:
<support@opendap.org> with a description of the problem and the
machine type and operating system.

Thanks!

---------------------------------------------
Specific Changes:

O icu/source/configure.in:

  o wchar_t support was turned off due to a configure problem with the
     wchar_t configure tests failing (on at least the Mac OS X platform).  

  o The GNU gcc symbol visibility checks for -fvisibility were removed
     and use of -fvisibility with gcc was turned off. This was done to
     remove overwhelming ld warnings about differing visibilities
     between static libraries. 
 
O We do not use icu/source/runConfigureICU or the distributed
   icu/source/configure script but instead use recursive autoconf to
   generate the configure script from the modified
   icu/source/configure.in during our build process.  The configure
   script we distribute is NOT the original ICU one.

O The icu/source/data/Makefile.in was modified to install the static
    icudata library with full data and not the empty stub one
    (according to the icu-support list, this is a bug fixed in
    later releases).


-------------------------------------------
Michael P. Johnson <m.johnson@opendap.org> 
OPeNDAP, Inc.  <http://www.opendap.org/>

